Field Validation API Concepts (#32357)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/reference/using-api/api-concepts.md

By contrast, the Kubernetes API verbs **list** and **watch** allow getting multiple
resources, and **deletecollection** allows deleting multiple resources.

> ## Field Validation

Reviewer: (nit)
```suggestion
## Field validation
```

>   {{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.24" state="beta" >}}

Author: done

> In certain situations, the API server will drop fields it does not recognize

Author: done

from an object it receives.

> The two situations this will occur are when:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The two situations this will occur are:
```

?

Reviewer: How about:
```suggestion
The two situations where this will occur are:
```

> 1. The field is unrecognized, meaning not in the resource's OpenAPI schema. (One

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The field is unrecognized because it is not in the resource's OpenAPI schema. (One
```

>    exception to this is for CRDs that explicitly choose not to prune unknown

Reviewer: I'd add a tooltip:
```suggestion
   exception to this is for {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="CustomResourceDefinition" text="CRDs" >}}
   that explicitly choose not to prune unknown
```

>    fields via `x-kubernetes-preserve-unknown-fields`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   fields via `x-kubernetes-preserve-unknown-fields`).
```

2. The field is duplicated in the object.

> When you use HTTP verbs that can submit data (`POST`, `PUT`, and `PATCH`) field

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you use HTTP verbs that can submit data (`POST`, `PUT`, and `PATCH`), field
```

validation gives you the option to choose how you would like to be notified of
these fields that are being dropped by the API server. Possible levels of
validation are `Ignore`, `Warn`, and `Strict`.

{{< note >}}
Any fields that are erroneous for other reasons (i.e. a

> field that is supposed to be an int, but is submitted as a string), will always

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
field that is supposed to be an integer, but is submitted as a string), will always
```

> Any fields that are erroneous for other reasons (i.e. a
> field that is supposed to be an integer, but is submitted as a string), will always
> result in the request failing with a bad request error.

Reviewer: I'd write:
```suggestion
If you submit a request that specifies an unrecognized field, and that is also invalid for
a different reason (for example, the request provides a string value where the API expects
an integer), then the API server responds with a 400 Bad Request error response.

You always receive an error response in this case, no matter what field validation level you requested.
```

{{< /note >}}

### Setting the field validation level

> Field validation is set by the `fieldValidation` query parameter. This parameter
> is a string, working as an enum and the only accepted values are:

Reviewer: How about:
```suggestion
Field validation is set by the optional `fieldValidation` query parameter. The three
values that you can provide for this parameter are:
```

I don't think we need to tell the reader that `Ignore`, `Warn` and `Strict` are strings; either the reader is amply familiar with strings in this context, enough to work it out for themselves, or they have a lot more background reading to do before it's useful to explain that detail.

For a client, these are opaque values, and anyway, substrings of URLs are always strings.

> `Ignore`

Reviewer: At the HTTP level, we expect a title case string here. Is that right?

: The API server succeds in handling the request as it would without the erroneous fields
being set, dropping all unknown and duplicate fields and giving no indication it
has done so.

`Warn`
: (Default) The API server succeeds in handling the request, but will add a
warning to the warning header for each unknown/duplicate field it detects. It

> uses the standard warning response header, see

Reviewer: ```suggestion
uses the HTTP response header `Warning:`; see
```

this [blog post](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2020/09/03/warnings/) for more

> about API server warnings in general.

Reviewer 2: Unknown or duplicate fields are ignored in this level, right?

Reviewer 3: Yes, they are dropped but the warning is added to the response.

`Strict`
: The API server rejects the request with a 400 Bad Request error when it

> detects any unknown/duplicate fields and will provide all the unknown/duplicate
> fields it has detected in the response message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
detects any unknown or duplicate fields. The response message from the API server specifies all the
unknown or duplicate fields that the API server has detected.
```

Tools that submit requests to the server (such as `kubectl`), might set their own
defaults that are different from the `Warn` validation level that the API server uses
by default.

> Kubectl uses the `--validate` flag to set the level of field validation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `kubectl` tool uses the `--validate` flag to set the level of field validation.
```

Historically `--validate` was used to toggle client-side validation on or off as

> a boolean flag. Since kubernetes 1.24, kubectl uses

Author: done, and bumped the version

> server-side field validation by default, and will only fall back to client-side

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
server-side field validation when sending requests to a server with this feature enabled.
```

> validation when it cannot connect to an API server with field validaiton

Author: done.

enabled. It accepts the values `ignore`, `warn`,
and `strict` while also accepting the values `true` (equivalent to `strict`) and `false`

> (equivalent to `ignore`). Kubectl continues to default to `--validate=true`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(equivalent to `ignore`). The default validation setting for kubectl is `--validate=true`,
```

By contrast, the Kubernetes API verbs **list** and **watch** allow getting multiple
resources, and **deletecollection** allows deleting multiple resources.

## Field validation

>   {{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.25" state="beta" >}}

Reviewer: On reflection, I think this should be for the heading “Setting the field validation level” and not for the 2nd-level field validation heading. Even with the feature gate off, there's some (actually quite a lot) of field validation going on.

Author: moved

> 

Reviewer: We should describe more about the other forms of field validation (not related to this feature being documented).

Something like:
```markdown
Kubernetes always validates the type of fields. For example, if a field in the API is defined
as a number, you cannot set that field to a text value. If a field is defined as an array of strings,
you can only provide an array. Some fields allow you to omit them, other fields are required.
Omitting a required field from an API request is an error.

If you make a request with an extra field, one that the cluster's control plane does not recognize,
then the behaviour of the API server is more complicated.
```

What do you think?

Author: yep, that sounds good to me. I agree it seems weird to jump right into the unknown field bits when there's more to validation than just that.

> Historically, in certain situations, the API server drops fields that it does not recognize

Reviewer: (nit / aside)
```suggestion
By default, the API server drops usually drops fields that it does not recognize
```
(is that correct)?

Author: done

> from an object it receives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from an input that it receives (for example, the JSON body of a `PUT` request).
```

Author: done

> from an object it receives.

Reviewer: nit: AIUI  the message from the client can include any resource body; it doesn't have to be an object.

Author: Yea, I don't think there's anything here that is saying messages are exclusively objects, just that objects received from the clients will have their unknown fields dropped by the api server

> The two situations where this will occur are:

Reviewer: (nit)
```suggestion
There are two situations where the API server drops fields that you supplied in an HTTP request.
These situations are:
```

Author: done

1. The field is unrecognized because it is not in the resource's OpenAPI schema. (One
   exception to this is for {{< glossary_tooltip
   term_id="CustomResourceDefinition" text="CRDs" >}} that explicitly choose not to prune unknown
   fields via `x-kubernetes-preserve-unknown-fields`).
2. The field is duplicated in the object.

> Provided that the `ServerSideFieldValidation` feature gate is enabled (disabled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provided that the `ServerSideFieldValidation` [feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/) is enabled (disabled
```

by default in 1.23 and 1.24, enabled by default starting in 1.25), you can take
advantage of server side field validation to catch these unrecognized fields.

When you use HTTP verbs that can submit data (`POST`, `PUT`, and `PATCH`), field
validation gives you the option to choose how you would like to be notified of
these fields that are being dropped by the API server. Possible levels of

> validation are `Ignore`, `Warn`, and `Strict`.

Reviewer: Should this come after the heading “Setting the field validation level”?

Author: moved
